h1. PlainView

PlainView adds another tool to your Rails migrations toolkit @create_view@ (and @drop_view@ of course).
which will allow you to harness the power of "database views":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/View_(database) in your application.


h3. Installation

as for now this is only available as a plugin, install as follows:
<pre>script/plugin install git://github.com/eladmeidar/PlainViews.git</pre>

h3. Usage

h2. create a migration
First you'll have to generate a migration
<pre>script/generate migration create_users_and_views</pre>

Than, on @self.up@ you can use the @create_view@ helper:
<pre>class TestView < ActiveRecord::Migration
  def self.up
    create_view :v_people do |t|
      t.base_model :user
      t.select :select => 'id, name', :conditions => {:name => 'elad'}
      t.use_security_mode :definer
      t.use_algorithm :merge
      t.use_check_option :cascaded
    end
  end

  def self.down
    drop_view :v_people
  end
end</pre>

* *select* - required, select is the actual select statement, you can either use ActiveRecord#find conventions or specify a plain test query.
* *base_mode* this is used only if you use the ActiveRecord conventions on the *select* statement, otherwise it is not required
* *use_security* - i don't know if this is supported on all databases, but in MySQL you can choose either @:merge@ or @:temptable@.
* *use_algorithm* - again, don't know if this is a cross DBMS option but on MySQL you can choose between @:definer@ or @:invoker@
* *check_option*  - same deal, on MySQL you can choose between @:cascaded@ and @:local@

h2. creating a model

based on the name you chose to your view, you can create a model based on the existing rails naming conventions, 
you can always name it whatever you want and specify the view name in @set_table_name@.

Note that the view model inherits from @ActiveRecord::View@ and not from @ActiveRecord::Base@:

<pre>class ThisIsAView < ActiveRecord::View
	set_table_name 'special_view_name'
end</pre>

h3. Database support

I investigated a bit, and the basic usage (@select@ / @base_model@) should run successfully on:

* MySQL
* OCI
* Oracle
* Postgresql
* SQLite
* SQLServer

although i was unable to actually test it on all of them, help is appreciated here :)

h3. Tests

Run @rake@. select the db you want to test by using an env var
<pre>> DB=mysql rake</pre>
don't forget to update the plugin's @database.yml@ in @test/config@

h3. Todos
